And welcome to session 616.
So what are we going to talk about today?
Well, we do this session every year,
and we typically talk about three or
four different technology areas in depth.
We talk about how they work,
how developers can
take advantage of them,
and so on.
And every year,
the server team has a real
difficult time picking those topics.
It's not because we don't
have anything to talk about,
but because we have so many different
technology areas to pick from.
As many of you know,
we have tens of different services
and components in Mac OS X Server.
And for each release, for each feature,
each service, we typically have three
or five new features,
so it's pretty challenging.
But luckily, some of these major areas,
such as Open Directory, Xgrid, ACL,
Kerberos,
we have our own dedicated session,
so that makes it a little bit easier.
And anyway, this year,
we picked these four areas to talk about.
And we talked about all
these areas in yesterday's
Mac OS X Server update session.
But today,
we're going to double click on them and
then talk about them more in details.
So we're going to start off by talking
about the managed network browsing.
It's a brand new
Tiger client server feature.
It's going to make it much
easier for people to browse,
especially in a large organization.
[Transcript missing]
Failover and High Availability.
We had this feature since Jaguar Server,
but we made some significant improvements
in this release in Tiger Server,
so we're going to be talking about this.
And also we're going to talk about
how developers can take advantage
of this and extend this capability.
And last but not least,
we're going to talk about the
certificate management feature.
It's again a brand new
feature in Tiger Server.
So let's jump right into
managed network browsing.
So we introduced network
browsing in Panther.
It's a feature where a user can browse
for file services and connect to
them directly in the Finder window.
Managed network browsing is built
on top of that functionality.
It's an incremental enhancement
to make it even easier to use.
But before we talk about that,
let's take a look at how it works
behind the scenes for Panther.
To get this feature to work,
we actually have three
different processes involved.
At the top level, of course,
we have the finder.
And to finder, all of these network zones
and file servers actually
shows up as folders and files.
And that's done by AutoManor,
which in turn talks to NSL,
or the network service location
API built into the system to find
out those list of servers and zones.
NSL talked to Directory Services.
So as many of you know,
the Directory Services have
different plugins for accessing
different directory systems,
such as LDAP and Active Directory.
In addition, it has a number of
service discovery plugins,
one for each protocol,
and then the other ones that are actually
responsible for finding those servers
on the network and reporting back up.
So that's how it works today.
Very simple.
This feature works fairly well for
consumers and small work groups,
but doesn't work too well
in large organizations,
especially with large networks.
It looks something like this.
There's just too much information.
You have too many network zones.
You have too many
servers in each of them.
And a lot of these zones
and servers come and go,
so it's somewhat
unpredictable and unstable.
And also, in most cases,
these zones are organized by
physical network infrastructure,
so usually by buildings rather than
by more logical grouping such as by
corporate org chart or by projects.
So these are the problems
that we wanted to solve.
And also, in most cases,
these zones are organized by
physical network infrastructure,
so usually by buildings rather than
by more logical grouping such as by
corporate org chart or by projects.
So these are the problems
that we wanted to solve.
So instead of looking
at something like this,
where there's a bunch
of raw network data,
you can create something like
this that's a little bit more
organized for your organization.
So let's look at some
of the sub-features.
You can create arbitrary neighborhoods.
The neighborhoods are those
folders that you see here.
And you can list them so it
doesn't have to be a flat list.
So for example,
maybe inside the engineering folder,
you may have server engineering,
finder engineering,
application engineering, and so on.
You can also mix and match
dynamic and static contents,
meaning for each folder, you can say,
I want these servers that I'm
going to specify to show up.
Or you can say, for this folder,
I want to show all the servers that
are discovered at runtime on the
client machine in these network zones.
And you can mix and match them.
You can also define multiple
views so you don't have to have
a single view for everybody.
You can create five or ten
different views and then show
it to different set of people.
And lastly, you can replace or append to
the existing view that user
would see today in Panther.
So the screenshot here is
the replaced version of it.
If you'd like, instead,
you can do something like this.
So what you've defined
shows up on the top,
and then below it,
you see the raw network zones.
So let's do a quick demo so you
can see what I'm talking about.
Okay, so we have a Panser client here,
and if you click on the network,
you see a bunch of zones.
What we did here was, whoops,
we're running a special tool that
does a fake registration of a bunch
of different zones and servers
so we can really simulate the
large corporation or institution.
So if you click on XAMPP,
you see different servers and so on.
And what we're going to do is we're going
to create a custom view and replace this.
And to do that,
we're going to launch Workgroup Manager.
This is where we implemented the feature.
And to do that,
we're going to launch Workgroup Manager.
This is where we implemented the feature.
And let's add a couple neighborhoods.
So maybe one called Sales.
and the other one is called Marketing.
And another one is called Server Group.
And now we're going to start adding
some servers into this neighborhood.
And there are three different ways
that you can add static servers
to each of these neighborhoods.
One way is if you haven't already
have a computer record for that
particular server or servers,
you can open up the drawer
and you can just drag them in.
So that's one way.
Another way is you can just go
ahead and drag directly from finder.
So if you look at the QA folder,
see our server.
and So that's another way.
And now let's actually
create a nested neighborhood.
Let's call this team members to
point to all the servers that
belongs to the server engineers.
And the third way to
create them is by hand,
manually.
So let's say if I have an employee
named Bob who is working from
Hawaii and we want to add a pointer
to his personal file sharing machine.
You can just name it, Surfing Bob,
and then just type in the URL.
Tag it, add it in here,
and then actually the computer
record automatically gets created
for that server for future.
And everything we've added here
so far are the static servers.
These information is all
stored in directory services.
But you can also add
some dynamic contents.
To do that, you just select this one.
And I happen to know that all the
server guys are sitting on the
fourth floor of the Anza 3 building
in the north and south zone.
So what we're going to do is go here
and then select the Anza 3 fourths,
and north and south, and add.
So what we're telling managed network
browsing is when this neighborhood
is clicked in the client machine,
showSurfingBox machine,
but as well as everything else
that was discovered runtime in
these two different network zones.
So this looks good.
I'm going to go to settings and
then set it to replace and save.
Let's go back to Finder,
go to the network.
Now you see the custom
view that we just created.
Okay, so now if you look at here,
you see everything that we've added,
and you can collect them.
Or you can go in here,
you see the Surfing Box machine here.
But you see all other servers that
are discovered in those network zones.
So we actually mix and match
the dynamic and static contents.
And if you'd like,
you can also go back here and
then set it to add and save.
There you go.
So now you see both FAT-UBD find
on top and then FATs on
the network at the bottom.
And we haven't made
changes to the finder yet,
so we couldn't actually distinguish
between these custom views
and then FATs on a network.
So we did a little hack,
and then right now we put
a little dash in the front,
so it actually shows up on the top.
But by the time we ship,
it should be a little bit better looking.
All right, so that was a demo.
Thanks.
Right, so now let's look at how
this works behind the scene.
What we did was in Tiger,
we made the NSL a little bit smarter.
So it now knows how to talk to
directory services and then get the view
configuration information and behave
differently based on that information.
And of course, we also made changes to
the Workgroup Manager,
so you can actually create and edit
those configuration information and
store them in directory services.
And by the way, this technology,
this feature works with
any directory system,
so it doesn't have to be LDAP.
It could be Active Directory with
some schema changes,
or it could even be local
NetInfo if you want to test it.
And that's actually how I just
did a demo to just keep it simple.
So we had all these three things
running on the same machine.
Now take a look at what gets actually
stored in the directory when we
do all this configuration editing.
There are three different record types
that's involved that we're interested in.
The network view, neighborhood,
and computer record types.
So at the top we have
network view record,
and it basically just
contains information such as
should I append or replace,
and then pointers to the top-level
neighborhoods that you've created.
Something like this.
And the network neighborhood
records contains basically
pointers to all its contents.
So it points to other neighborhood
record if it's nested,
or to different computer
records if you have a bunch of
different servers specified,
or references to network zones
if you have dynamic contents.
So what we just demoed here
would look something like this
inside the directory if you want
to take a look at that system.
And again, you can create multiple views.
It doesn't have to be just one view.
So you can create five or 10 of
these things or 50 of those things.
And that gets us to the next topic,
and that is how does NSL pick
a view when they have multiple
different view records in the system.
It basically follows a set of rules.
So what it does is,
it first looks at the directory and sees
if there's a computer record for the
client machine that it's running on.
Not the server computer record,
but the client computer record.
And if it finds one,
it checks to see if there is a
preferred view record specified in that.
And if there is one, use it.
If not, it looks at the local preference
file and see if there is a preferred
view that it should be using.
If not, it goes back to the directory and
it looks for a view whose record
name matches the MAC address of
the machine this NSO is running on.
If it doesn't find one,
it looks for IP address match.
look for the subnet match.
And if all the above fails,
it just goes ahead and
uses the default view,
which we've actually used.
And if there's no default view,
or if the default view is turned off,
then it just goes back to
the default answer behavior.
So, let's summarize.
With this feature,
you have complete control over what
your users would see in Finder when
they click on that network icon.
You can easily create, edit,
and then preview them
in Workgroup Manager,
the tool you already know.
You can mix and match both
static and dynamic contents.
You can replace/append,
so it gives you a bit
more flexibility there.
And you also can create different
views for different set of users.
And all the configurations
stored in the directory,
which means when you create that,
it automatically gets propagated
to all the replicas when the
directory system replicates.
And also you can use directory
services command line tools for
editing them from remote machine,
from SSH, even on Linux machines.
And all the configurations
stored in the directory,
which means when you create that,
it automatically gets propagated
to all the replicas when the
directory system replicates.
And also you can use directory
services command line tools for
editing them from remote machine,
from SSH, even on Linux machines.
So that's actually all I had for
the management work browsing.
And now I'd like to
introduce Rusty Tucker,
who's going to tell us about
file service and locking.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Locking in file services is an important
part of any file system or file services,
especially so in Mac OS X Server where
we have such a variety of
different file services serving
a variety of different clients.
So today we're going to start by taking
an overview and review how locking
works today for Windows over SMB,
for Carbon clients over AFP,
and Unix clients over NFS.
Then we'll take a look at
how we're enhancing this
file locking interoperability
on our platform for Tiger.
Finally,
then we'll wrap up with some notes
for cross-platform developers
can use to develop collaborative
applications using this technology.
So we'll start with file
locking in AFP and SMB.
Fortunately,
the two protocols provide very,
very similar semantics in file locking.
Both are using opens with deny modes.
So they can open files
read-only with shared access,
read-write with shared access.
That would be a read-write with not
denying other readers or writers.
And the most common case of
read-write with exclusive access,
which is what most applications do.
After opening a file
read/write with shared access,
collaborative applications will then
ensure concurrency and serialize access
to the files using range locks for the
ranges that they want to read or write.
In AFB and SMB, these locks are mandatory
locks so that it's just a,
other users are prevented from
opening a file so they don't
have to test locks and so on.
In Unix file locking, in contrast,
it's an opt-in policy,
so the locks are advisory.
You need to test for the presence
of the lock before opening a file.
And you can use the Flock API to do so.
You can take out an exclusive
or shared lock on the full file.
If you want to do range locking,
you would use the F control APIs.
It's an advisory lock that you would
test for both exclusive or shared access.
[Transcript missing]
I'm sorry.
Oh.
I'm on the wrong-- back to slides.
Thank you.
We don't have a demo for locking.
As I was saying,
both advisory and mandatory
schemes work very well.
But in both cases,
the applications have to agree on a
scheme that they're going to use to
ensure collaborative access to the files.
In the Unix, using Unix locking,
applications must choose whether
they're going to use the F-lock to
guarantee for concurrency or F-control.
They can't use both.
They're basically
exclusive one or the other.
Which leads us to the way that
Samba and AFP map the open and deny
and locks onto the Unix semantics.
Standard Samba uses the F control to
map its range locks to the F control.
So in this case,
it's not mapping any lock
when it takes an open or deny.
AFP, on the other hand,
maps its open denies to the F lock.
And you can see here,
this is basically the
standard architecture.
and David For that.
So in Tiger we want to enhance this
and really unify the way that AFP and
SMB provide locking to their clients.
Doing this will be able to
support concurrent access,
not just ensure consistency,
but be able to have concurrent
access from the two platforms on a
given file to provide shared editing
for collaborative applications.
Working with NFS,
because we don't have a perfect mapping
between the semantics of the AFP and
SMB locking with the Unix file locking,
will favor data integrity over
concurrent access with NFS.
And then finally, because we,
and underlying the servers,
we need to take out the Unix locks,
we'll have to use strict locking to
emulate the mandatory nature of the
locks as provided to the clients
on the Windows and Mac platforms.
All this will be delegated to a new
system framework for range locking.
Back to the architectural diagram,
we'll have AFP and Samba talking
to POSIX and Carbon layers.
Between the two of them will be a range
locking framework to negotiate access
to files with the proper semantics.
So double click on some
details on how this is actually
implemented in the framework.
As with AFP, we're going to map the open
deny calls to an F-lock.
And you can see, according to this chart,
we have basically three different
options to do from the F-lock.
We can take no lock at all.
We can take an exclusive
lock or a shared lock.
And so this is not,
doesn't provide the full match
to the semantics provided
by the open deny calls.
So where the locking will
give us consistency with NFS,
we'll use internally map the
consistency between the open
deny calls within the framework.
So byte range locking will be
fully enforced by the framework.
We won't be taking an F control
because it won't be possible.
We already have the F lock on the file.
And the reason for doing this
is that the byte range locks are
really more transitory in nature,
whereas the F lock persists for the
entire time that the file is open,
giving us a better story
around consistency with
other applications and NFS.
The locked database is memory
mapped for better performance.
And we'll emulate the mandatory
nature of the locks by testing within
the framework and AFP and SMB for
the presence of both the range locks
and denies before we open files
or perform read and write operations.
So a few notes for developers that
want to take advantage of this
in collaborative applications.
On the Mac platform,
you'll want to use the Carbon APIs to
access this capability.
And first test for the
capability on the file system by
testing for the open deny bit.
Mac OS X provides support for
many different file systems.
Each of them have a
variety of capabilities,
and not all support open
deny or range locking.
Finally, when you have found that
that capability exists,
use the PPH opened and I sync call.
And in this case,
specify IO read/write with shared access.
PPA OpenDenySync also has variations
that allow for async operations and
also operations on the resource fork.
and finally use PB lock range sync to
gain exclusive access to a range of bytes
that you want to either read or write.
From the Windows platform,
you want to use the Create File API.
And here, the default is that you'll
gain exclusive access.
So you want to define, provide, specify,
I should say,
that you want read/write shared access.
And then finally use the lock
file API or lock file extended to
gain exclusive access to the range
of bytes that you want to read
or write from your application.
Locking is just one of the many areas
that application developers can take
advantage of on the Mac OS X platform.
There's a session later on today,
Best Practices for
Application Developers,
that session 108 today at 5 o'clock.
You can gain more information around
performance and other APIs that are
available to file system developers.
And there's a number of online
resources that you can use
to your advantage as well.
And with that,
I'd like to introduce Chris Jalbert,
who will provide some information
on failover and high availability.
OK, when we were working on
the slides for this stuff,
something that failover and high
availability has actually been in the
server product for quite some time.
But it seems like not a lot
of people know about it.
Our sales engineers when they go out,
they try to talk about some of the
extra features that Mac OS X has,
Mac OS X server,
and they'll mention this.
And most of the customers are like,
really?
So I think the first thing to
talk about is what is failover?
First of all, it's part of a high
availability solution.
Apple has a lot of different
components to tell a story
now about high availability,
and some that are hardware
and some that are software.
Failover is a software piece.
And it provides the transparency of
availability for short-lived protocols,
primarily Datagram, which are best known
as UDP-based protocols,
and certain short-lived TCP protocols,
such as HTTP,
where you connect to the web service
and you download a document and
then continue making connections.
And the basic premise behind it is
that when the primary node fails,
the backup will take over that
primary IP's publicly accessible
IP address and then offer the same
services that were on the primary.
And it's typically backed by
a RAID or a SAN file system.
for extra data integrity
on the file system level.
So here's a typical hardware setup.
On the top,
you'll see that I've put a DNS server,
and the idea here is just the notion
that you'll have the two servers,
your active server and
your backup server,
but there needs to be something else
out there that has some information
that the clients are going to reference.
And the easiest thing to
point out is a DNS server.
That's the thing that will
resolve the IP addresses for
the primary and the secondary.
And again,
we've demonstrated the backup with
the RAID available to both machines.
One thing that's been
omitted from this picture for
simplicity is the fiber channel,
which is the stuff in blue,
often will have a special fiber
channel switch wired up in
there so that both servers can
access both sides of the RAID.
It just has to do with a
hardware configuration.
Another thing to point out
is that the private network,
which is on the right
side of the diagram,
can either be Ethernet or FireWire.
With the IP over FireWire,
you can actually use that
as your private network,
and it's a cheaper option by just
kind of daisy-chaining FireWire
between your servers without having to
have an extra network switch or hub,
and adds additional reliability because
you don't need that extra hub there.
So I think the first thing to point out
is that failover and high availability
have been around since Jaguar.
There was a failover product
that we shipped with that.
However,
the philosophy that we had when designing
that was that no two sites are alike.
Any time that we tried to figure out,
well, gee, what would be a useful
solution for customers?
What would be a typical scenario?
We couldn't come up with any.
And when we asked the sales engineers,
they were telling us, oh, well,
this customer needs QuickTime,
and this customer needs websites,
and this customer needs home directories.
So what we thought the
easiest thing to do was,
well, how about we just kind of provide
the infrastructure and not the
complete solution because everybody's
going to have to customize it.
Everybody's site's going to
be a little bit different.
And all we did for the
infrastructure then was just to
manage the state of the peers,
the primary and the secondary,
and then do the failover of the
IP address and email notifications
and then ran executables,
which is the customized part of
the site that the administrators
would have to do themselves.
And we defined it and documented
it so that they could do so in
the way that would meet their
own individual requirements.
But there wasn't a lot of deployment
from our customers because it
was too difficult to set up.
And in particular,
the additional network interface
in the previous releases had
to be very carefully set up.
And most of the times when we would
go to look at what had happened
in a site that wasn't working,
it was related to the network setup.
And further,
not having a user interface really
seemed to scare a lot of people
away because it required fairly
significant network knowledge about
how the site was going to work.
And that they'd have to use
VI to edit the etc host config,
which seems to scare a lot of folks.
[Transcript missing]
That was primarily by leveraging
the IPv6 stuff that's now built in.
And with that,
the daemon can actually auto-configure
as much as possible on the system.
So the daemon comes up,
tries to figure out
where it is in the world,
and then auto-configures what it
can auto-configure for the private
network and be able to communicate,
sort of auto-discovers what's going on,
and then will start the
heartbeat between the two nodes.
The one thing that people did
seem to like were the external
scripts that allowed customization.
So we're definitely keeping
that in this release,
and we're improving the
documentation and again providing
some more samples for that.
And the real reason for this change
is to build the foundation for future
directions that we can go once we
have these two daemons that are
sitting there to talk to each other
about the reliability of hardware.
And the step that we took for
that was to expand and secure
the communication model.
So the daemons are actually
now talking over IPsec so
that the authenticated IPsec,
for those who actually
know much about IPsec,
it was a learning experience for me,
so that when one node talks to the other,
they know that, yeah, it's okay,
that's coming from
somebody that I can trust.
And that allows additional communication.
Like one node to actually tell the other.
And then another node to shut down.
Generally,
you don't want to do that unless you
can trust where it's coming from.
And so those future directions require
this kind of secure communication model.
We're on to the next.
There we go.
So the other thing to talk
about is what's not in Tiger.
There's something known as
instant or live failover.
This is a very,
very difficult thing to accomplish,
which means that as soon as
the primary node is offline,
the secondary takes over.
As if nothing happened,
it has a complete state of information.
And it's a very sophisticated problem.
And again, we're building the
foundation for the future.
This is our first step.
And this is not something that we can
accomplish in the Tiger time frame.
Load balancing.
Load balancing is often solved with
other devices' existing hardware.
There's some open source software
to actually be dealing with that.
Again, we're building a foundation.
So load balancing is not in Tiger.
The other thing that we-- we added a
restriction that the file services can
only be running on one node at a time,
on the primary and not on the secondary.
Other services.
They can be running on the secondary.
But the file services,
the locking stuff that they added,
and the file system itself underneath,
we were worried that there might
be some issues about concurrent
access and stuff like that.
So to be safe,
we wanted to make sure that
data integrity was primary,
as was mentioned earlier.
So for this release,
the file services can
only run on the primary.
When it fails over,
it'll switch to the secondary and then
be handed back on the manual failback.
Again, we're building a foundation,
and we hope to improve
on that in the future.
The other thing is there are no
multi-node access to the RAID.
And again,
this is kind of a-- sort of the
reason or the side effect for that
file services only on one node.
If you want multi-node
access to the RAID,
there's a product called XAN,
and there's a lot of
sessions about it here.
You're welcome to go through those
sessions and get more information.
So here's the user interface.
This is the interface that we propose.
You'll notice it's
actually fairly simple.
Up at the top is what I've
been calling the public node,
and we're still trying to come
up with a better name for that.
That's basically just the
DNS name for the primary node.
That's where everything is keyed off.
So you enter that in,
and that's what the secondary
machine will babysit.
We've added additional email
addresses in the previous release.
We could only have one.
So now you can have as many as you want.
And then the all-important
failover now and failback,
which will change to failback now,
to do the manual failback.
And the status window inside
Server Admin will show you the status
of where you are with some explanatory
text to help guide you through it.
Also,
we tried to provide some explanatory
text to help you set it up.
Again,
it's somewhat of a complicated scenario,
but we're trying to simplify it as
much as possible for our customers.
So in Tiger, we currently have a
single daemon process.
In previous releases,
we actually had two.
We had one that was sort of broadcasting,
another one that was listening.
So we've combined them into one
to simplify the communication
model and help with the enrichment
of the communication model.
It runs over authenticated
IPsec for our security,
and it uses standard
plists for communication.
So it's a command sequence with
arguments and passes data and
something that looks like notifications
and commands and stuff like that.
And it's all based on plist.
And then for the private network,
we use IPv6,
which is automatically set up.
So that means that the customers
don't have to set up a whole other
private network and give 10 addresses
or anything to their FireWire address
or their private ethernet address.
And then the daemon
auto-configures from the DNS name,
as I mentioned on the previous slide.
We've enhanced some.
We've added the helper scripts
that were there previously.
They were notify failover
and process failover.
And we've added some--
the site-specific scripts,
sorry, the customized stuff
that customers would use,
that's in the same location.
So if someone actually managed to
set up IP failover in the previous
releases and got doing exactly
the way that they wanted to do it,
when they upgrade to Tiger,
they won't lose that customization.
And it will still function
for them as it did previous,
with the exception of
the manual failback.
So how do you enable your
service for failover?
Well, first of all, when possible,
don't be tied to specific IP addresses.
Because much like in
a mobile environment,
where you've got your laptop that's
going between ethernet and airport
and different airport zones,
when you're dealing with failover,
IP addresses will come and go.
So if you're tied to
a specific IP address,
and that IP address
goes out from under you,
then your service generally is
going to be a little confused.
So one of the ways to get around that
is to use the system configuration
framework and become network aware.
There's actually another session--
I think it's tomorrow-- on how to
write your app to be network aware.
And that applies to the server product,
which is generally a much more
static environment than a desktop,
particularly a laptop.
But it's still important
for dealing with failover.
The other thing is that you should
be able to gracefully handle the
mounting or unmounting of file systems.
In a failover case where we're
dealing with file services,
generally that means the home
directories are going to come
up on the secondary machine.
And in the failback case,
those home directories
are going to go away.
So that means that if you're
depending on stuff in the file system,
they may come and go on you.
And when possible,
don't keep open references to
those files on the file system,
because it could go away.
And the other thing is you might want
to consider if you're writing a client,
the client side of this is to
consider automatic reconnect.
So when that service is lost temporarily,
you can automatically reconnect
if you've got credentials,
or if you're using the
single sign-on technology,
just to be able to reconnect to the
server once the secondary takes over.
And the other thing you might want
to consider for future directions is
an automatic redirection of clients.
So if there is a bank of servers,
like in the case of the
primary and the secondary,
or perhaps more if the customers
have set that up that way.
When you connect to the first one,
the service could respond to the client,
"I'm sorry, I'm really busy right now.
Please try this other site instead."
So that's something else to consider.
That is just an enhancement on
top of the failover that we think
would be beneficial to customers.
So for services that can't be modified,
so for things that are open source,
things like Apache or open source
FTP that isn't really designed to have a
lot of customization just for Mac OS X,
you can use these customized
scripts that I talked about before.
And there's a well-defined sequence
of what happens when an IP address
is to be acquired or released.
And it will process the
directory in library IP failover.
Each directory will have as
its name the IP address that
will be acquired or released.
So first it runs a test script to
determine whether or not it should
acquire or release the address.
And if it fails,
if it returns a non-zero status,
then it will abort the acquisition.
And if it fails,
if it returns a non-zero status,
then it will abort the
acquisition or the release.
This is much less important in Tiger.
In previous releases,
this was the way to prevent automatic
failover or automatic failback.
If you just wanted to be able
to be a notification mechanism,
you could have the test script do this.
But with this feature added and a
little more control for the users,
this script in particular
becomes much less useful.
However, the other scripts,
which are the pre-acquisition
and pre-release scripts,
in addition to the test script,
are also more useful.
But in addition to the peers,
which are the post-acquisition
and post-release scripts,
are where all the meat happens
in terms of dealing with those
services that aren't failover ready.
So in the case of an acquisition,
we'll run the test script.
We'll run all of the
pre-acquisition scripts,
so all the scripts that
begin with this pre-ACQ.
And then it will actually acquire
the address using ifconfig and then
run the post-acquisition scripts.
So in the release case,
it's very similar,
but it's clearly using the
release version of the scripts.
So this is a case where, let's say,
the primary is running the web service,
and on failover,
you want the web service to be running.
Well, you wouldn't do anything
in the pre-acquisition,
but in the post-acquisition,
you would start up your web service.
And in the release,
you want to shut it down before
you get rid of the IP address,
so you would shut down Apache in
the pre-release script.
So that's something that will
be... One of the samples,
just to demonstrate.
So in previous releases,
we didn't pass any
arguments to the script.
We figured there was enough
information that the scripts or
executables could figure it out.
However,
to simplify some of the logic so that
all of the scripts and executables
aren't doing the same thing,
we've changed the invocation a little
bit to pass in whether or not we're
acquiring or releasing and exactly which
IP address that we're operating on.
So to summarize about failover,
we currently offer a bunch of
components for high availability.
There are some that are software,
like Watchdog and LaunchD.
LaunchD is actually-- we'll have
another session later in the week.
Failover, which I've talked about.
There's also automatic hardware reboot,
which if the machine freezes, I think,
is actually how the user
interface specifies it.
It'll reboot after some period of time,
which is typically five minutes.
And we also have some hardware solutions,
like XAN and XSERV RAID.
One of the things about
failover in Tiger,
compared to the previous versions,
it's going to be a lot easier.
So we hope that a lot of
customers will be using it.
But that also means that your
services could be affected.
So where possible, design your services
with failover in mind.
And generally,
that doesn't require a lot.
First, it means to be network agnostic,
to be aware of changes in the
network and the file system,
and to be fault tolerant,
which I know is a really broad word.
But it just generally means
that when you go to open a file,
it may fail.
And you just need to be able to
handle that kind of stuff gracefully.
And for those services
that can't be modified,
you can leverage the failover
scripts and provide sample scripts
to your customers to ensure that your
services stay up or come back up on
the secondary when a failover does,
in fact, happen.
So the second topic that I'll be talking
about today is certificate management.
Sorry, I'm having a little
problem with the clicker.
So certificate management,
there was some stuff in Panther.
There were a lot of different
services that could actually
make use of certificates.
Most of them were based
on open source projects.
Open Directory,
although that was our creation,
makes use of some certificates,
primarily in the LDAP for LDAP over SSL.
Mail, Postfix, and IMAP can actually use
SSL certificates there as well.
VPN uses certificates
for its L2TP protocol.
And web, of course, the original SSL.
However, the configuration was very
inconsistent across them and
required a lot of manual setup.
You needed to generate the keys by hand
and needed to enter in the appropriate
information in the user interface.
And the services often
couldn't share certificates.
You had to create a certificate
for each service instead of having
sort of one global for the machine.
So for Tiger, we've changed that.
And we've centralized certificate
management in the Certificates
tab in the server settings.
So there'll be some UI screenshots,
and I'll show you what I mean by that.
But the idea is that all
the certificates you create,
you do so in a central location.
And then it'll integrate in with
a certificate authority website.
So we actually have the means to
take a certificate signing request.
And you can either paste it
in their website or email it
to a certificate authority.
And we leverage the new certificate
assistant that's in Tiger so that you
can actually email those certificates
to the local CA for signing.
And inside each service that could
actually leverage the certificates,
we present a list of those available
certificates rather than the previous UI.
So here's the new Certificates tab.
You'll notice that we have a list here.
We show when it was created
and the date of expiration.
And these are currently only self-signed,
because after all, they're examples.
But this UI is very similar
to most other table views,
where you can add, edit,
and delete stuff.
You'll also notice that on the top level,
it's actually a global
setting for the server.
So the General tab has things like
the server name and the serial number,
and the certificates
are just a peer of that.
So this is how you would
actually create a certificate.
Standard stuff for setting stuff.
And once you've actually create
the self-signed certificate,
we have a couple of buttons to request
a signed certificate from a CA.
And then once you get that result back,
to paste it in.
And these are what the
dialogues look like.
It's fairly simple.
It can actually email it
directly from the admin app.
So you don't even have to
cut and paste anything.
It'll just generate the
email and send it off.
Or you can drag that
little icon over there.
It'll actually drag a
clipping with the certificate.
And then once you get the result back,
you just paste it in, click OK,
and you have a bona
fide signed certificate.
So that centralized list will
really simplify the user experience.
And the following services-- I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to say it like that.
We do have a bunch of services
that actually use the new
API and the user interface.
Again, it's the same ones that you've
seen from previous releases.
But we're leveraging it
with this new interface.
So just to show you an example,
this is what configuring
SSL for Open Directory was
like in previous releases.
So you could turn it on,
but then you had to specify
each of the different files and
all that stuff well in Tiger.
I think the battery is
dying on the clicker here.
In Tiger, it looks like this.
It's just a pop-up.
You pick one of them,
and we do all of the stuff behind
the scenes necessary to activate
that certificate for LDAP over SSL.
Thank you, I'll pass the word along.
Likewise, here's the old web UI.
Same kind of thing,
all these multi lines.
And clearly, when you ask the customer,
hey, make sure you spell that right,
Well, that's the new UI.
So greatly simplified.
They just pick one out of the list.
If it needs to be exported because the
web server only understands OpenSSL,
again, we do that in the background.
So it's automatically activated
for that particular service.
So what can you do to take advantage
of certificate management in Tiger?
Well, there's two command line tools.
There's one that was
available in Panther,
Server Admin.
And we've added a new one, Cert Admin,
to simplify your use of certificates.
So if you wanted to see all of the
certificates on the system and get
it as a plist because you're using
Foundation or Core Foundation,
and you want to be able to parse
it and get all the parameters,
you can execute this command.
Go ahead, I'll let you all copy it down.
And that will actually generate
a large plist with all of the
certificates in it and all of the
different settings associated with it.
Most of the stuff that came
from that settings panel,
the creation panel,
about the site name and
the CSR and all that stuff.
So this is a very rich output.
However,
if you wanted to put this in your UI,
well, that's a lot of parsing.
So we've provided a more simplified tool,
and that's the cert admin tool.
And if you just say cert admin list,
it just spits out the name so you can
populate that pop-up just like we do.
And if you need to export the certificate
to OpenSSL because the service you're
using only does OpenSSL instead
of using Apple Security Framework,
then we have a fairly
simple command to export it,
and you just give it the certificate.
And that's the site name.
So we've tried to provide tools to really
simplify your ability to leverage this,
what we hope will be a very cool
new feature for users to increase
the security of their product.
And hopefully these tools will
allow you to leverage that as well.
So, why do we care about this?
Well,
because we all know that certificates
are an important tool for securing data.
SSL is a key thing and more protocols
today have SSL extensions and maybe
your protocol wants to do that as well.
With Tiger Server,
we've really simplified and
centralized the certificate
management and provided tools for you
to leverage that and to be able to
integrate them into your own service.
And that's it for certificate management.
I'm sorry.
I really think the
batteries are dying here.
It's clicking out on me.
So hopefully you'll be able to
leverage certificate management
in your products as well.
So for more information on all the
things that we've talked about today,
there's a lot of different
stuff available on the DVDs.
There's some documentation
and release notes.
And as additional drafts come available,
those will show up through
the developer websites.
And we have man pages
on the stuff on the DVD,
and we're adding more every day.
So there's a lot of different resources
on the web and a lot of different
sessions as well to be able to get
some additional information about
some of the things we talked about,
like network awareness and
the best practices for file
systems and things like that.